How heartwarming it’s been
to see millions take their stand
for true worship!
Thousands more are joining us every week.
Jehovah is speeding up the ingathering work,
and this makes us very happy.
But who will work to provide the Bibles,
Bible literature,
and the audio and video publications
that sustain us spiritually
and help us to accomplish
our Kingdom preaching and teaching work?
Bethel is a unique place.
It’s where mature Christians
render sacred service to Jehovah
in close association with Christ’s brothers.
They minister to the needs
of our worldwide brotherhood
and support the preaching work.
The Bethel family is a group
of dedicated, baptized servants of Jehovah
who live and work together closely.
So they experience in a special way
what Psalm 133:1 says:
“Look! How good and how pleasant it is
for brothers to dwell together in unity!”
We’re very pleased to see that many
have expanded their service to Jehovah
by making themselves available
for the special privilege of Bethel service.
Have you considered this as a goal?
Making yourself available for Bethel service
is like knocking on a door that leads
to many other privileges of service.
Of course, to serve at Bethel requires
a self-sacrificing spirit
and a willingness to serve
wherever there is a need,
in harmony with the attitude displayed
by the prophet Isaiah
at Isaiah 6:8:
“Then I heard the voice of Jehovah saying:
“‘Whom shall I send, and who will go for us?’
And I said: ‘Here I am! Send me!’”
When Isaiah learned about an opportunity
to do more in Jehovah’s service,
he responded eagerly,
even though he did not know exactly
what he was going to be assigned to do.
It was enough for him to know
that Jehovah was extending an invitation
to serve in a special way,
and Isaiah wanted to volunteer.
The same spirit is shown
by Bethel family members worldwide.
What especially motivates so many
to serve at Bethel?
Love for Jehovah moves us
to put Kingdom interests
ahead of self-interest.
As stated in the Proclaimers  book, page 295:
“This is not work in which they gain
“personal prominence or material possessions.
“Their desire is to honor Jehovah,
and they are satisfied
“with the provisions made for them
in the way of food, lodging,
and a modest [allowance]
for personal expenses.”
Are there any rewards
that come from serving in this unique way?
Those who have offered themselves willingly
for Bethel service
have truly been blessed.
The love and unity we feel here
is incomparable.
It’s not like in a company out in the world
because here you can work
with your friends every day.
Like-minded people have the same goals
and support each other.
That is what you can feel here.
Maybe you’re assigned a task
that you’ve never performed before,
but there are many experienced
brothers and sisters who can help
—professionally as well as personally.
Whether it is the consideration
of the daily text or the Watchtower  Study
with the Bethel family,
listening to the practical, valuable comments
of our brothers and sisters
is really refreshing.
You really feel that they love Jehovah,
and their comments help you to feel the same.
Here in Bethel, you have
the best Employer that there is—Jehovah.
No other employer is as grateful
and considerate as he is,
so out of love for Jehovah,
you’re simply happy to give him your best.
Whenever I think
about what is being done at Bethel
—publications are being produced
and shipped,
videos for our conventions are being made,
and translation is being done
into so many different languages—
I keep getting goose bumps.
No matter what I can do here,
knowing that by doing it
I am supporting Christ’s brothers
makes me feel very, very good.
So how does a young person
qualify for Bethel service?
My parents raised me
to have a spiritual focus.
So during the school holidays and growing up,
our life revolved around the ministry
—doing spiritual activities.
And it really helped us
keep focused spiritually as a family
and helped me stay focused
on the goals that I wanted to achieve.
I really enjoy reading,
and one day my Dad just said to me,
“Why don’t you read the Bible?”
And I know it sounds obvious,
but at that point, I had never read it
from Genesis to Revelation.
So when I finished reading the Bible,
it really changed my thinking,
and it really proved the truth to me.
And this helped me to keep a spiritual focus,
and it really was the first step
in reaching out and achieving
the spiritual goals that I wanted to achieve.
In the congregation, I was able to help out
with doing the magazines
and the sound and the platform.
And these privileges really helped me
to build a good work ethic
and to give in many ways,
so that I could give more to Jehovah.
So the elders used
to work with me a lot in the ministry.
So when I felt that ‘I can’t do this’
or ‘This is too much’
or ‘It’s too overwhelming’
or ‘I’ll never be able to reach this goal,’
an elder showed me a scripture in the Bible
where Jehovah was encouraging Joshua
to be courageous.
And that really impacted me,
so that I was able to be courageous, too,
and to reach my goal of Bethel.
So when I visited Bethel,
I saw that they were normal people,
and they had so many good qualities
that I wanted to imitate
—very hospitable, very warm, very inviting.
That helped me to want to reach my goal,
so that I could be like them.
To serve at Bethel,
there are qualifications that need to be met.
You should have a deep love for Jehovah
and the organization,
which is demonstrated by living
in harmony with Bible standards.
You must have a fine reputation
as a spiritual person.
You should have respect
for Jehovah’s moral standards,
avoiding uncleanness and sexual immorality.
You should have a clean conscience
before Jehovah
and be at peace with yourself
and with Jehovah’s organization.
Your dress and grooming
should be exemplary,
befitting a Christian minister
even during leisure time.
Styles that are faddish or extreme
or that identify us
with undesirable elements of the world
are not acceptable at Bethel.
The applicant would not read, listen to,
or view any type of material
that is inappropriate for a Christian.
Such unwholesome material
certainly would include pornography,
debasing music,
or any kind of entertainment
that features sexual immorality,
spiritism, or violence.
Bethel applicants should be
from 19 to 35 years of age.
Occasionally, there is an opening
for someone over 35 years of age
who may have specialized skills
that are needed at Bethel,
such as those with certain technical
or medical experience,
translation skills,
or building trades such as plumbing,
electrical, heavy equipment mechanics,
or carpentry.
Those with such capabilities and training
are welcome to apply.
In view of the unique demands
of a full-time assignment at Bethel,
you should be mentally
and emotionally sound,
physically strong,
and able to work long hours.
You should be able to read, write, and speak
the primary language of the branch territory.
This will enable you to communicate well
with others serving at Bethel,
to receive needed training,
and to work safely in the Bethel environment.
Bethel applicants agree to serve
for a minimum of one year,
during which time you will receive training
for continued Bethel service.
With regard to secular skills,
we do not encourage individuals
to obtain university education or training
with the thought that this will improve
their chances of being called into Bethel.
The best way to prepare for Bethel service
is to first serve
in the full-time pioneer ministry.
The greatest need is for single brothers.
However, all who meet the qualifications,
including sisters,
are encouraged to apply
for temporary volunteer service.
Serving as a temporary volunteer at Bethel
may open the way to other opportunities
to expand your service to Jehovah.
If you are interested
in applying for Bethel service,
you should make your desire known
to your Congregation Service Committee,
who will provide you access
to the online applications
by means of my.jw.org.
However,
which application should you complete,
since there are two types
of applications available?
First give careful and prayerful consideration
to your circumstances.
Thereafter, decide whether you will complete
the Application for Volunteer Program
(A-19),
which is available for those interested
in serving on a temporary basis
for as brief as one week or as long
as several consecutive months.
Or you may decide to complete
the Application to Become a Member
of the Worldwide Order
of Special Full-Time Servants
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
(A-8).
This application is for those interested
in serving on a long-term basis
for one full year or longer.
If the Branch Committee determines
that there is a need for your services,
they will decide where you can best be used,
whether at Bethel or perhaps
on a theocratic construction assignment.
Submitting your application may open
a door of opportunity to serve Jehovah
and his organization in a variety of ways.
Of course, not all of us who have
such a self-sacrificing spirit
have the circumstances in life
to serve at Bethel.
But we can encourage others who do.
Parents, follow the example
of God-fearing parents
such as Hannah and Elkanah,
who willingly made their son available
for expanded theocratic privileges.
Continue to place the goal of Bethel service
before your young ones,
and stimulate their interest
in the full-time ministry
by your example
and your positive expressions.
If possible,
bring them on a tour of world headquarters
in New York, U.S.A.,
or make arrangements
to bring them on a tour of the Bethel
in the branch territory in which you live.
Such visits can help young ones
to witness firsthand
the work that’s being done at Bethel
to promote Kingdom interests.
Elders, help young ones in your congregation
who have the potential
to expand their service to Jehovah
to meet the qualifications.
Jehovah continues to look for those
willing to respond to his invitation
to expand their service to him.
As in Isaiah’s day, He asks:
“Whom shall I send, and who will go for us?”
Will you answer as did the prophet:
“Here I am! Send me!”
We encourage you to progress
to spiritual maturity
and serve Jehovah whole-souled.
In due time, you may qualify
to serve at Bethel
or in another form
of exciting theocratic service
that permits you to use the health
and strength that Jehovah has granted you
in an expanded way, all to his praise.
Please be assured that we love you
for the willing spirit you show
as you continue to reach out
in Jehovah’s service.